the United Nations Agency for
Palestinian refugees says it has
suspended Aid operations in Gaza because
of a lack of fuel and the collapse of
communication networks this as the un's
world food program warns that starvation
in Gaza could be imminent because of a
lack of Food Supplies un officials say
that only 10% of necessary food Aid has
entered Gaza since the beginning of the
conflict Rafa near gaza's Southern
border with Egypt
the AL rabaya Family live here in the
part of Gaza that Israel said would be
safe for
civilians but the family says their home
was destroyed by an Israeli bombardment
on the first day of the
war at night they sleep at a un school
but during the day they return to the
rubble of their old
home they say every day is a struggle to
find enough to eat sometimes there's
nothing but tea but even worse than
hunger they say is the constant fear of
Israeli
bombs there's danger all the time
because there's no specific time for the
bombing it could happen at any time and
you could be hit at any
time we don't want food or drink we just
want to be safe with our children after
the fear we have felt and the
destruction we have seen we just want
Safety and
Security because now there is
none the bombing and the blockade have
also pushed gaza's Health System to the
brink of
collapse staff at the Turkish
Palestinian friendship Hospital say they
had to shut down gaza's only Cancer
Treatment Center due to lack of fuel
also caused by Israel's blockade without
medicine or chemotherapy there's little
the doctors can do to help dozens of
cancer
patients the situation is not only
tragic it's more than tragic cancer
patients are a fragile group they need a
lot of care from nurses from Medical
Teams medicine as well as psychological
support which we don't have
now the blockade on fuel hasn't just
affected
hospitals gaza's Communications network
has shut down and an aid delivery by the
UN was canceled both from lack of fuel
Israel says it will begin allowing two
tankers of fuel per day to enter which
the UN says is only a fraction of what
they
need Israel's National Security adviser
says the decision to allow fuel trucks
into Gaza is aimed at improving Health
Care in the
territory the decision was intended to
prevent the spread of
disease we don't want diseases that
could harm the civilians or our
forces if there are diseases the
fighting would be
halted we cannot continue fighting in
the event of a humanitarian crisis or an
international
outcry well for more I'm joined Now by
Margaret Harris she's a spokesperson for
the World Health Organization she joins
me tonight from Geneva Margaret it's
good to see you again so Israel says it
wants to prevent the spread of diseases
with these fuel deliveries is that going
to work considering we're talking about
just two trucks
it's let's say at least it's a start but
it's certainly not enough uh the needs
we've assessed simply to keep the Water
Sanitation the hospitals going are
considerably more the numbers I have are
that we need at least uh well
considerably more than that and the
other big issue is you've got people
crowded together
they as you've so graphically
Illustrated with your report they
they're living in makeshift conditions
they don't have enough to eat they they
don't have water to wash with there's
only 5% of the water that used to come
into the um ter the area is coming in
now and they're in horrific conditions
uh just the effect on their mental
health of the constant bombing means
that all the factors are there that will
lead to massive outbreaks of disase and
we're already seeing outbreaks we're
already seeing more than 45,000 cases of
diarrhea over 70,000 cases of upper
respiratory tract infections these are
the outbreak diseases and it's only
going to get worse unless something
really really big happens and that the
biggest thing the best thing that can
happen is a ceasefire and it doesn't
look like we're going to get a ceasefire
anytime soon and we have to you know
admit the fact that more than half of
the hospitals in in the Gaza Strip are
now closed due to a lack of fuel how
many trucks do you need to restart
Hospital
operations so and again they have to go
to the north as well as the South what
we're hearing at the moment is the
uh the the fuel will only be permitted
to go to the South so what we need to
see is at least 120,000 lers a day um
and I think we've been promised a lot
less than that uh and and that's going
to come in per day and to get things
really started you've got to get a large
amount in because there are so many
things that now need to be restarted
because of this blockade on the
fuel the Israeli Army said that it
delivered incubators for premature
babies at the alifa hospital um Can
those incubators run without Fuel and
oxygen that according to the hospital
staff is also Al running
out so that's a big Point yeah the the
reason they they had to take the babies
out of the incubator is they didn't have
power incubators are things by Nature
that must be powered now all those sort
of bits of equipment can run for a while
on batteries but not forever you have to
have power and if you cut the power off
you cut the the lifeblood this the the
chances of the seriously ill the
vulnerable of surviving and horrifically
we are now hearing uh reports of those
very vulnerable patients in alifa
dying Margaret Harris with the World
Health Organization joining me tonight
from Geneva Margaret as always we
appreciate your time thank
you thank you stepen cook is a Middle
East Analyst at the Council of foreign
relations and a columnist for foreign
policy magazine Mr cook it's good to
have you with us on this Friday evening
with you your latest article in foreign
policy it comes with the headline this
war won't solve the Israel Palestine
conflict why are we in this doomed Deja
Vu well primarily
because despite all of the horrific
destruction and death that this conflict
has caused the basics of the conflict uh
have not changed um uh the Palestinians
uh have some basic demands that the
Israelis cannot uh cannot adhere to and
the Israelis have basic demands for
peace that the Palestinians can't
deliver and that leads to a stalemate
and there's nothing about this war that
changes those uh demands and the
inability of either party to be able to
deliver them for the other side so for
example Israel insists that it's capital
B Jerusalem uh that it will not live
within the June 1967 June 4 1967 borders
and that it will not accept uh
Palestinian refugees back in from 1948
back into Sovereign Israel uh the
Palestinians say they must have a
capital in Jerusalem uh they need to
live within a contiguous fully sovereign
state and that uh refugees uh should
return to uh their homes uh from 1948 uh
none of these things uh are changed as a
result of this uh horrific conflict that
is happening in the GSA strip yeah I
want to talk more about us policy in
just a moment but first I'd like to get
your take on this we've noticed in the
last few weeks that more and more
Israelis are openly criticizing Benjamin
Netanyahu even predicting his demise
sooner rather than later he has not
accepted any blame for October 7th do
you think that the voters will hold him
responsible well I think he has U at
least hinted that uh he was responsible
for uh for what happened on October 7th
but of course um it is for Israeli
voters to decide and his uh public
opinion polling in Israel uh indicates
that he is not popular as a result of
the attacks on Israel on October 7th
this is someone who built his political
career on being Mr security uh and he
was successful at that for many years
but if you are the prime minister at the
moment of Israel's worst security
failure in the history of the state it's
hard to make that case he was already
UNP with about half of the population um
I will I expect that when there is uh
when there are elections in Israel uh he
will not be able to survive it at least
it would be an amazing feat of political
survival for him to not go down and
resounding defeat so let's consider then
a post Netanyahu Israeli policy towards
the Palestinians would we see a change
or would it be as right leaning as
ever I think the hope is that a
Netanyahu less L Israel would be more
forthcoming on the Palestinian issue but
there's very little reason to believe
that's the case that's why it's called a
hope uh Israelis have moved to the right
um over the course of the last decade or
so and this conflict uh in particular
with the amount of death and destruction
uh that was caused by Hamas terrorists
on October 7th um suggests that um
Israelis um do not uh want a government
that is is interested necessarily at
least in the short term in peaceful
coexistence but actually interested in
securing the country um there's been a
noticeable uh rightward shift in the
polls that have been taken thus far so
that um when Israelis finally do go to
the polls uh it strikes me that what we
will see is another center right right
Coalition uh likely without netan and
likely without um the those parties that
are on the the furthest right that are
currently part of the Coalition but
never nevertheless um there is no peace
Camp um there is really no Center left
and there's barely a center yeah and yet
you have the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin looking towards a a
postwar future with the Palestinians
relying on a reformed Palestinian
Authority to govern on the West Bank and
in Gaza is that just wishful
thinking I think the Secretary of State
and the people around him um are bereft
of any new ideas on how to bring um not
the current War but the conflict between
Israelis and Palestinians to some sort
of uh successful end uh much of what he
has been saying uh particularly when he
was in the region two weeks ago are
things that are non-starters uh what is
the United States going to do what is
the International Community going to do
to re quote unquote reinvigorate uh the
Palestinian Authority does that mean
elections uh Mahmud Abbas and his fat
faction would likely lose those
elections are we going to pour more
money into
a hopelessly corrupt and dysfunctional
uh dysfunctional quasi State uh on the
West Bank um the Israelis have already
rejected the idea of extending the
Palestinian authorities uh
Administration from the West Bank to the
Gaza Strip so it it strikes me that the
secretary of state is hopelessly behind
the curve here of course that's not his
fault this is uh a conflict that may in
fact uh defy
resolution defy resolution so does that
mean the two-state solution has no
future the two-state solution died uh
quite some time ago I think it's
something that um American policy makers
and and policy makers uh around the
world uh say the words to State solution
because they don't have another idea but
they but they don't have another idea it
it strikes me in particular after this
conflict um that the sides are further
apart than they ever that they have been
at least since uh you know pre since the
the establishment of the state of Israel
um as far as they could possibly be in
terms of the establishment of two states
sitting living side by side and In Peace
So if you had the US president's ear
right now what would you advise him to
do
next yeah this is a it's an extremely
tough question because this is such a a
tragic uh a tragic situation um but I
would say to him that um uh this is a
problem that's not to be resolved it's a
problem to be managed um that um he is
correct in calling for uh humanitarian
pauses in the fighting but that um if he
were to apply significant pressure on
the Israelis uh to stop to actually um
uh put pressure on the Israelis for a
ceasefire at this point um it would
likely make him look weak because the
Israelis have defined their conflict
with Hamas in existential terms and are
unlikely to listen to even the president
of the United States under those
circumstances let me before we let you
go let me kind of broaden this out um
President Biden had a face-to-face
meeting this week with the Chinese
president and that is where we know his
attention is at the moment so you've got
China you've got Ukraine and you've got
Israel Gaza Hamas is the US stretched
too thin is it juggling a lot of balls
here and slam dunking not a single
one uh I like your use of slam dunking
by the way um you know I I I think that
there us relations with China are uh of
extraordinary Global importance and are
a core interest of the United States to
have a stable relationship with a
strategic competitor like China I think
the war in Europe uh the Russia's
invasion of Ukraine is um of
extraordinary importance to the United
States and to the global order I think
the conflict between Palestinians and
Israelis as important and as emotive as
it is and how it as much as it has
affected people personally around the
globe uh remains a local conflict and um
despite being an expert on the Middle
East um I'm sort of heartened by the
fact that the president took time away
from the conflict in the Middle East to
spend time on something that is of true
Global importance and that is US
relations with China all right that's a
great way to end the talk then Steve
Cook at the Council of Foreign Relations
we appreciate you joining us on this
Friday night thank you
Steve my
pleasure since October 7th and already
tense situation on the Lebanon Israel
border has become more precarious with
the Lebanese Hezbollah labeled a terror
group by Germany and the US carrying out
near daily strikes on Israeli targets
the vast majority of rockets are
intercepted but some do make it through
and Israel retaliates both Hezbollah and
Israel say they do not want allout
conflict but both say they are ready for
anything residents who live along the
border have been ordered to evacuate not
everyone has
complied shuted shops and empty
streets cats and soldiers pretty much
all the life left in Kat
Mona Less Than 3 kilomet from Israel's
northern border with Lebanon kirat Mona
is right in hezbollah's Firing Line This
strip of shops was struck by a rocket
from Lebanon nearly 90% of this town
have been evacuated there's only really
soldiers walking around and every now
and then you can hear the outgoing fire
of the Israeli
military like a six or five cars
18-year-old Elia of flalo was here the
night the Rockets hit the bomb
uh fell on the roof and the explode
under the car can you feel the oh wow
here there he's one of the many who's
moved away from the town but he travels
back for work each day in this sandwich
shop that now opens mainly to feed the
hundreds of troops stationed in the area
all the city have evacuated my family
evacuate so me too and uh I came every
morning to walk to feed my soldiers
going to the mil
next week he'll start his compulsory
military service and perhaps end up back
here in uniform I know one thing the
Israeli Army is one of the best in the
world and they is strong don't afraid
and uh they trust them in this now
deserted town we happen across one of
the few residents who says she'll never
leave sure it's scary when there are
explosions here but we have
faith Esther donon moved here with her
husband last year for the countryside
clean air and the quiet but a lot has
changed since
then all the neighbors have left maybe
there is one or two still here we rarely
see anyone here in the street there is a
military base there are Israeli
soldiers I'm not
afraid
not afraid but unsure what the future
holds I am not a mind
reader no one knows what will happen
next we are hoping that this will be
over we want to stay here until the end
of our
lives for now though kirat schona
remains a town of of cats soldiers and a
few Hardy citizens like
Esther DW correspondent Rebeca Ritter
she filed that report she joins me now
from Jerusalem good evening to you
Rebecca what is the latest at Israel's
northern border
tonight but it's been another pretty
tense day on that border Brent we've
seen uh as many as 10 or more rockets
launched from the Lebanese side claimed
by Hezbollah into the Israeli side and
today we've seen also uh four Israeli
injuries we're not uh yet sure we've not
been updated on the state of those
people but four people have been uh
injured in rocket fire that have landed
in uh into Israeli territory so it's
it's incredibly tense I mean it was
quite strange being up there actually
you feel the tension you feel the
tension particularly with the
authorities we were followed by police
who were asked to move on we're asked
not to film obviously any military
Target but you can't even actually see
much military it's very different to say
when you're in the South for example you
know it's it's quite a different tension
in the air but it's something that
Israel are particularly worried about
that that border we're talking about
150,000 Precision rockets that Hezbollah
have and if they decide to activate uh
then we're talking about a very very
serious front opening up that's
something that obviously the
International Community and Israel are
trying to stop and at this stage it
looks like what we're hearing from
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nella is that
he's trying to tie up troops Israeli
troops in the north rather than actually
launch a fulls gay scale attack so we're
everyone concerned and waiting to see
what's going to happen tension's very
high Rebecca in your report we heard
residents there worried about the
conflict reaching their doorsteps how
worried are Israelis elsewhere about yet
another front opening in this
war people are obviously concerned I
mean you can probably see behind me I'm
in Jerusalem and in Jerusalem it feels a
little bit like life is normal of course
the war is something that everybody is
talking about not just the war but the
hostages the the situation in Gaza the
political situation everything here it's
it's very at the Forefront of everyone's
mind but but the the opening up of the
particularly the northern front
obviously worries people though as I
just mentioned it sort of feels as
though that's not going to happen it's
not going to happen into a full SK wall
I spoke to somebody in the US state
department saying that they also believe
somebody that works on that on that file
they they say that they also believe
that Hezbollah are not keen to get
involved but it's just going to take a
misstep you know it's going to take a
misstep from either side Israel
obviously retaliating but if they do
something that that Hezbollah says
crosses their red lines then they may
well get involved and of course that is
a concern for everybody not just here
but everybody across the globe I
understand a funeral was held for the
hostages whose remains were found in
Gaza what do we know about
that yeah that's right uh one of the
soldiers that was known to have been
kidnapped uh we we saw video of that
Soldier actually alive uh last week and
then another video was released showing
her body and Hamas claiming that she had
been killed by Israeli rocket fire now
uh by by bombardment Sorry by missile
fire but obviously that we can't we
haven't been able to verify but the body
was found in the shifa hospital complex
or near that area and was brought back
to Israel so she could be laid to rest
today another uh hostage was also found
at the complex and today we've also this
evening just seen another video of a
very elderly and sick man who's also
been taken hostage his condition not
very known but obviously huge concerns
about his welfare and we're starting to
see this happen at rather a pace we know
that there are negotiations ongoing for
the release of these uh some at least
some of the hostages up to 50 hostages
in return for a short ceasefire but
there a sticking point particularly from
the Israeli side not wanting to allow
that ceasefire so so far no progress on
that our correspondent Rebecca ridos
with the ladies tonight from Jerusalem
Rebecca is always good to see you thank
you the body of Israeli soldier Noah
Marciano was discovered by Israeli
forces earlier this week during their
ongoing Sur
of gaza's alifa Hospital the 19-year-old
was captured by Hamas on October 7th
while she was serving at the nahal O
kibuts near Gaza Marciano appeared in a
propaganda video filmed by the militants
that was released earlier this week
showing her alive 4 days after she
arrived in Gaza the next images shared
by Hamas were of her dead body she was
laid to rest on Friday as questions
remain over exactly how she
died her coffin carried by her fellow
Soldiers the body of Corporal Noah
martiano is brought to its final resting
place the end to a long search to find
the
19-year-old she was captured by Hamas on
October 7th while she was serving on an
IDF base near the border of
Gaza
from that black Saturday we've had no
rest our pain turned into the nation
Spain we've tried everything 40 days in
which we've turned every stone we've
searched every path we've climbed every
tree and today we're asking for your
forgiveness we're sorry that we did not
succeed you protected us but we failed
in protecting
you isra troops say they found Marano's
body in a building adjacent to the
al-shifa hospital in Gaza City during
their raid the body of another Israeli
hostage a 65-year-old woman was
reportedly found near the
hospital Israel has not confirmed the
cause of Marano's death Hamas claims she
was killed by Israeli bombing but this
cannot be independently
verified flags were raised a loft by
mourners at the
funeral friends and family expressing
grief that resonates across the whole of
Israel